Welcome to Service Binding.
After watching this video,
you will be able to explain
the roles and goals
of service binding.
Describe how to bind
a Kubernetes cluster
to an external service.
Identify commands to retrieve
the secrets in your
Kubernetes cluster,
and describe how to use
service binding in apps.
What is service binding?
Service binding is
the process needed to
consume external services
or backing services,
including REST APIs,
databases, and event buses
in our applications.
Service binding manages
configuration and credentials
for back end services while
protecting sensitive data.
In addition, service
binding makes
service credentials available to
you automatically as a secret.
Service binding consumes
the external service
by binding the application
to a deployment.
Then the application code
uses the credentials
from the binding and calls
the corresponding service.
Here, you can see an
architectural diagram that
illustrates the binding of
a Kubernetes cluster to
an external service.
Next, let's learn the steps
required to bind the service
to your application.
Let's use an IBM Cloud
Service example.
Service binding quickly create
service credentials for
an IBM Cloud service.
You create the service
credentials using
IBM's Public Cloud
service endpoint,
and then store or bind
your service credentials in
a Kubernetes secret
in your cluster.
Here's how to bind an IBM
Cloud service to your cluster.
First, you provision an
instance of the service.
Then you bind the service
to your cluster to create
service credentials
for your service
that use the public
cloud service endpoint.
Next, store the credentials
in a Kubernetes secret.
Finally, you
configure your app to
access the service credentials
in the Kubernetes secret.
The IBM Cloud catalog
provides various
services that range from
visual recognition to
natural language processing
and creating chat bots.
We are using the tone
analyzer service
to explain binding.
This service uses
linguistic analysis
to detect tone in a given text.
The service provides
an SDK in Java script.
You bind the service
to the deployment
so that the credentials are
automatically available.
The code then uses
the credentials from
the binding and calls the
tone analyzer service.
Now that you know the steps,
let's examine some code.
In the first step, provision
an instance of the service by
creating the service instance
using the command
line interface.
You can also provision an
instance of the service
by using the catalog on
the IBM Cloud website.
In the second step, you bind
this newly created
service instance to
your cluster by using the
service bind command.
IBM Cloud Service
Binding automatically
creates a Kubernetes secret
with the service credentials.
The credentials of a service
instance are base 64
encoded and stored inside your
secret in the JSON format.
Now that the service is
bound to your cluster,
here in Step 3,
you can verify your
secret object.
The Get Secrets command shows
all the secrets in your
Kubernetes cluster.
Or you can retrieve
the same secrets in
the Kubernetes dashboard
user interface,
as well as on the IBM
Cloud Kubernetes service.
To access the data
in your secret,
choose one of the
following options.
Mount the secret as a
volume to your Pod,
based on the specifications
provided in Step 1.
This action creates a
JSON formatted file
named binding that is
stored in the Volume
Mounts directory.
The binding file includes all
information and credentials
required to access the
IBM Cloud Service.
Or you can reference the secret
in environment variables.
The environment variables
binding, API key,
binding.username, and
binding.password,
correspond to the API Key
username and password of
the Watson Tone analyzer
service instance
created in the previous step.
The displayed code snippet
shows a sample node.js
application using
the binding.API
Key, the binding.username,
and the binding.password
environment variable inside an
express.JS application
that will be
deployed to the IBM Cloud
Kubernetes Service.
In this video, you'll learn
that binding an
external service to
your deployment
automatically provides
the credentials to use the
service inside the code.
Credentials are stored
as a secret that can be
consumed using volume
mounts and volumes.
Binding manages configuration
and credentials for
back end services while
protecting sensitive data,
and you can configure
your app to
use the credentials
stored in the secret,
either by mounting the
secret as a volume to
your pod or by referencing
the secret in
environment variables.